well let's bring in now Sophie or Sophie
is supposed to enlist in the Israeli
Army but is refusing to do so she joins
us from parades Hannah in Israel good to
have you with us so first of all let me
ask you why did you take the decision
that to refuse to
enlist well I made the decision to
refuse Before the War I made that
decision because I refused to take part
in the idf's violent policies of
Oppression and apartheid and to be part
of this endless cycle of Bloodshed I
choose to refuse because there is no
military solution to a political problem
and now with the war that has become
more apparent than ever and so my
refusal is more important to me than
ever and I choose to refuse in a very
public way in hope to reach the Israeli
Society especially young people to show
them that refusing is an option and that
peace is an option the only option
because there are 7even million
Palestinians here and 7 million Israeli
Jews here and no one is going
anywhere are you worried about how
receptive the public will be to your
message given the militarization of
society given the push to the right
that's going
on uh indeed Israeli Society is an
extremely militaristic one and refusing
is absolutely not an accepted thing and
I am called The Traitor a self-hating
Jew I get wishes for me to be raped or
killed and since the war started it has
gotten worse there has been a shift to
the right and the right was already
strong and there also was been a
repression of activists in the radical
left
especially H Palestinians with Israeli
citizenship but also Israeli Jews so I
am worried but it's worth it because
even if only one person is going to hear
my words and they will make them think
then it's worth it and I'm willing to to
endure the consequences of that given
everything you've just said and the sort
of calls that you're facing it must take
a lot of conviction to take the position
you've
taken How concerned are you about the
prospect of facing almost an endless
cycle of Court appearances and jail
terms right that's what you could be
looking
at uh I am concerned of course it's a
scary
experience H but I do have the support
of the MV Network which also supports
stal mnik that was just sent to
prison and they accompany us on this
process and it does help a lot but of
course it's scary and we I don't know
how much time and it can be different
now with the war because the political
sphere in Israel has changed and gone in
a dramatic shift
uh to the
right but as I said before I'm concerned
but it is worth it and I stand with my
decisions and my morals all the
way well since your decision of course
that a war has
started and there have been
reports by
multiple Israeli as well as
international human rights groups been
statements by un experts 36 in fact on
November the 16th talking about a
genocide in the making going on has that
strengthened your resolve that this is
not something you want to be associated
with and how is how is that playing out
with
others and definitely for me the war has
only made my decision I may made me more
sure in my decision and the war in Gaza
is horrible it causes horrible
destruction and death and it can never
be justified the same way that the
massacre on October 7th can never be
justified and it's unrelenting and it
leads us
nowhere but in to most people in
Israel the war changed them in the
opposite direction and there has been a
shift to the right and young people in
Israel in general H in contrast to the
rest of the world tend to be more
right-wing so it hasn't really made
other people not want to associate
themselves with it and it's why I want
to refuse to show them that there are
reasons to not want to be associated
with the IDF and with that
war Sophie how much of the war do
Israelis actually see how much of the
civilian suffering do they see
I think that Israelis know the least
about what's going on in Gaza in the
entire
world H the media in Israel does not
show uh this civilian the civilian
damage and deaths and
destruction uh which the the IDF in
general tries to present itself a lot of
the time as the most moral army in the
world um you can see it on social media
because there
are Israeli soldiers that post proudly
videos from Gaza horrible
videos so it can be seen but most people
won't see it in mainstream media and
also don't want to see it because people
want to feel that they are in the right
and that they are supporting a a right
cause and that it's only self-defense
and that they don't have a choice
so
definitely don't see a lot of
it okay thank you so much sopy all for
taking the time to come and talk with us
appreciate it